Weather data prediction:

1. In this project, we will discuss whether rain is coming or not.

2. Workflow of the project:

weather dataset---->Exploratoary Data Analysis (EDA)----->Data preprocessing----->Train test split---->Load the various model----->Hyper parameter tuning---->Trained the model---->Prediciton and Evaluation score

3. Data collection and preprocessing:
3.1 Load the dataset
3.2 Read the first and last 5 rows
3.3 Get sim basic information and find some white spaces
3.4 Remove the white spaces and once again check it.
3.5 Remove the unwanted columns,
3.6 Find the missing values and fill them by mode and median.
3.7 convert from categorical column into numerical column.

4. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):
4.1 Get the statistical measures 
4.2 Create the histogram plot to analyze all the features
4.3 Analyise the distribution of the rainfall column which is the targeted data.  The targeted data is highly imbalanced. We need to balance and  have to create the new dataset.
4.4 Before that create the heatmap to analyze the correlation by correlation matrix.
4.5 Create a boxplot to check the outliers
4.6 Drop the highly correlated columns from our given dataset.
4.7 I use the Over Sampling method which is called SMOTE
4.8 Check the value counts whether it is balanced or not
4.9 Save the re_sampled file as a new file.
4.10 Load the new data file


5. Split the feature and targeted data from the new data file.

6. Suffle the new data frame to get a good model.

7. Split the data into training and test

8. I am used the LogisiticRegression with hyperparameter tuning to get the better score.
8.1 I got the accuracy_score 0.79 by using the Logistic Regression model

9. Second I used the XGBoost Classifier model and I got a score is 0.81 which is a good score compared with the previous model.

10. Third, I used the SVC model and I got the very lowest score 0.49. This mode don't give the good score for this weather prediction data.

11. Finally, I make the prediction system to predict the rainfall by the input data.

